---
layout: post
title:  "getcert.jar cannot be retrieved"
categories: wget
date: 2016-03-16 10:15:00
author: Torsten Rathmann, Matthew Harris
---

Example error message:

    No ESG Credentials found in /Users/daniele/.esg/credentials.pem
    OpenSSL 1.0.1c 10 May 2012 WARNING: 
    ESGF Host certificate checking might not be compatible with OpenSSL 1.0+ Retrieving Federation Certificates...
    mv: /Users/daniele/.esg/esg_trusted_certificates: 
    No such file or directory done! Please give your OpenID 
    (hit ENTER to accept default) [https://myserver/example/username]? https://pcmdi9.llnl.gov/esgf-idp/openid/..... 
    MyProxy Password? Retrieving Credentials...
    Invalid or corrupt jarfile /Users/..../.esg/getcert.jar Certificate could not be retrieved

**Solution 1:** Remove all contents of the directory ~/.esg and try running the Wget script again

**Solution 2:** Run the Wget script with the -H option.

     bash wget-################.sh -H

Then authentication will be tried without certificates.

**Solution 3:** The wget application installed on your system might not be compiled with SSL. You can check this by issuing "wget -help" and investigating wether or not there are some SSL options. If not

* Try using the Wget script with the -T option. Another cryptographic protocol will be used for communication then: TLS (Transport Layer Security) instead of SSL (Secure Sockets Layer) or
* Talk to your system administrator about installing a new version of wget with SSL support

**Solution 4:** You can try to obtain certificates on another system. Run a short download with a Wget script there or, if this is not possible, run the MyProxyLogon application. Copy the certificates from the other system onto the old system where you want to run, in the location ~/.esg/credentials.pem then. Maybe it is easiest to copy the whole credentials directory .esg

